{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff219\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f219\froman\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}CG Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f219\froman\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}CG Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f219\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \fi-720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin720\itap0 \f219\fs26\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 Bib;}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 \sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1602016\rsid2627163\rsid3822355\rsid4205875\rsid5201829\rsid6379823\rsid6448823\rsid7613274\rsid7817965\rsid8148649\rsid9323028\rsid12194482\rsid13984433\rsid14765479}{\info{\title REL 145a -- FINAL PAPER}{\author Chris Hayes}{\operator Jeffrey Levick}{\creatim\yr2007\mo5\dy4\hr15\min39}{\revtim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr17\min25}{\printim\yr2003\mo10\dy26\hr22\min14}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2166}{\nofchars12347}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws15162}{\vern24967}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt720 \ftnbj\aenddoc\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\fracwidth\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin720\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot13984433 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f219\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\insrsid8148649 REL 145}{\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 a -- FINAL PAPER\par Suggested Topics\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\insrsid8148649 \par }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid1602016 In this paper (approx. 10 pp) you have }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid1602016 two tasks}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid1602016 :\par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 \tab }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 (1}{\f0\insrsid8148649 ) Develop an interpretation of one of the }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 biblical }{\f0\insrsid8148649 passages in the Suggested Topics listed below (75 % of the paper).  Note that you are NOT being asked to work as a source critic identifying the sources that may have been combined in the composition of the passage.  You are being asked to study the final form of the passage and provide what you believe is the best or most plausible reading}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  based on a close consideration of the language, style, immediate context, and broader biblical setting (i.e., consult other biblical passages that contain relevant information for, or parallels to your text).  }{\f0\insrsid8148649 You will need to pay }{\insrsid8148649 attention to the artful use of tone, syntax, wordplay, imagery, genre, form, narrative viewpoint, irony, dialogue, repetition, parallelism \endash  to any techniques and literary devices deployed by the writer to create meaning, to persuade, to provide aesthetic pleasure, and to invite the reflection and participation of the reader.  In other words, you are asked to read the passage with the same respect for its literariness as you would the classics of Greek literature or Dante.  Remember that the biblical writer\rquote s style is terse and riddled with gaps.  }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Pay particular attention}{\f0\insrsid8148649 , therefore, to points of ambiguity.  Identify them clearly, }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 consider various }{\f0\insrsid8148649 possible }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 interpretations}{\f0\insrsid8148649 ,}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  and point to the evidence for }{\f0\insrsid8148649 or}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  against these various interpretations}{\f0\insrsid8148649 .  You may decide that one reading is stronger than another; you may decide that two or more readings are equally plausible.  When developing your interpretation, focus on the information provided by the passage and its immediate and larger biblical context.  DO NOT BE GUIDED BY EXTERNAL THEOLOGICAL ASSUMPTIONS UNSUPPORTED BY THE TEXT.  DO NOT ASSUME BIBLICAL CHARACTERS ARE HEROES WHO NEVER DO ANYTHING WRONG.  Focus on the complex moral and psychological realism of the writing.  \par \tab }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid6379823 N.B.}{\f0\insrsid8148649  Each suggested paper topic contains references to commentaries or a secondary reading that can help in developing your interpretation, but the assignment is not primarily a research assignment.}{\insrsid8148649\charrsid6448823 \par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 \tab }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 (2) }{\f0\insrsid8148649 Account for two}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  }{\f0\insrsid8148649 ancient/medieval }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 interpretations of the text, one drawn from traditional Jewish sources and one from traditional Christian sources}{\f0\insrsid8148649  (25% of the paper)}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 .  }{\f0\insrsid8148649 The interpretations are provided with each suggested topic.  Your job is NOT to pass judgment on these interpretations as right or wrong but to explain how these interpretations are indeed readings of the passage in question }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid7817965 given the interpreters\rquote  assumptions regarding the text}{\f0\insrsid8148649  (that it is perfect and contains no contradictions; that it is cryptic; that it is of divine origin; and that it is meaningful).  What problems and issues did the ancient interpreter see in the text (i.e., what }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 motivate}{\f0\insrsid8148649 s the interpretation)?  To }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 what }{\f0\insrsid8148649 does the interpretation respond?  H}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 ow do}{\f0\insrsid8148649 es the interpreter}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  resolve ambiguity?}{\f0\insrsid8148649   What textual details does the interpreter draw on to fill gaps?}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  }{\f0\insrsid8148649 What does the interpreter choose to ignore?\par \tab }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 N.B.}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  You must complete }{\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 both }{\b\f0\insrsid8148649 parts}{\f0\insrsid8148649  of this assignment.  }{\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid3822355 The greatest time and attention should be devoted to developing your own interpretation through cl}{\b\f0\insrsid8148649 ose textual analysis (approx. 75}{\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid3822355 % of the paper).}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par \tab The paper is due at }{\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 3:00}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  pm on the last day of reading period, at the Department of Religious Studies, 451 College Street.  \par \tab }{\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 PLEASE NOTE}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 :  Students who cannot meet the due date for the paper must request an extension from the instructor }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 prior}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  to the due date.  Late papers without an extension will }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 not}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  be accepted.\par \tab }{\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid9323028 PLEASE NOTE FURTHER}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 :  }{\f0\insrsid8148649 Copies of the source materials needed to write the paper will be available on the class website}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 .\par }{\b\f0\insrsid8148649 \page }{\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Suggested Topics}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 :\par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 \par }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 1. The casting out of Hagar and Ishmael (Gen 21:1-16).  }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Focus particularly on vv 9-10}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 .\par \tab (a) To assist in developing your own interpretation, see Gen 16, Gen 30 (Rachel and Bilhah, Leah and Zilpah) and consult the bibliographic resources listed below for Genesis commentaries.\par \tab (b) Jewish interpretation: }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Bereshit Rabbah}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  LIII:11.  Found in }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Midrash Rabbah}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 , Soncino Translation, p. 470.  }{\f0\insrsid8148649 Also }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Babylonian Talmud Sanhedrin}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  89b, "R. Levi said..." to "Our rabbis taught."  \par \tab Note: This midrash focuses on the verb }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 metsahek}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  (mocking, sporting}{\f0\insrsid8148649 , \ldblquote fooling around\rdblquote }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 ).  }{\f0\insrsid8148649 This}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  is a pun on Isaac's name (Isaac in Hebrew is yitshak which comes from the same root as metsahek.  See Gen 18:12-16, cf. 21:3-6 -- Sarah's "laughing" is from the same root).\par \tab (c) Christian interpretation: Galatians 4, especially v. 21-28.  Read chapters 2 and 12 in J. Louis Martyn\rquote s }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Theological Issues in the Letters of Paul}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  (Nashville: Abingdon Press, 1997) pp. 191-208, 25-36.}{\f0\insrsid8148649   }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par \par 2. The drunkenness of Noah and the curse of Ham (Gen 9:18}{\f0\insrsid8148649 -29).}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par \tab (a) To assist in developing your own interpretation, see Lev 18 (note especially v. 6 and the mention of Canaan in v. 3); Gen 19:30-38; Gen 27, 49; Gen 48:15ff (parental blessings and curses); Gen 10-11 (note, 11:27 -- from which son of Noah is Abraham descended?).  Consult the bibliographic resources listed below for Genesis commentaries.\par \tab (b) Jewish interpretation: Ramban, }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Commentary on Genesis}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 , comment to v. 18 on p. 139 and comment to v. 26 on p. 143 (last paragraph).  [Ramban = Rabbi Moshe ben Nahman = Nahmanides, 1194-1270, lived in Spain.]}{\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid4205875 \par }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \tab (c) Christian interpretation:  Luther's Works, vol 2, Lectures on Genesis, chapter 6-14, pp. 165-174.  \par \par 3.  The apostasy with the Golden Calf (Ex 32:1-6)\par \tab (a) To assist in developing your own }{\f0\insrsid8148649 interpretation, read the entire golden calf story (Ex 32:1-33:6.  See also }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Ex 24:12-18; Ex 20:1-6, 19-20; }{\f0\insrsid8148649 Deut 9 (especially v. 20); }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 1 Kings 12:25-13:6, 34.  See also the commentaries on Exodus by Brevard Childs and Umberto Cassuto.  \par \tab (b) Jewish interpretation: }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Shemot Rabbah}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  XLI.7.  Found in }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Midrash Rabbah}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 , Soncino Translation, pp. 476-79.  }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 NOTE}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 :  You may be selective and discuss only those parts of the midrashic passage relevant to your argument.}{\f0\insrsid8148649   }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par \tab (c) Christian interpretation:  }{\f0\insrsid8148649 (Refer to }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 New Testament, Acts 7:35}{\f0\insrsid8148649 -53.)}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  }{\f0\insrsid8148649  }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Tertullian in }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid4205875 The Ante-Nicene Fathers}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 , vol 3.  \par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 \par 4. Miriam and Aaron speak aganst Moses (Num 12:1-16).  Focus especially on vv. 1-2.\par \tab (a) To assist in developing your own interpretation, see Ex 4:6ff; Lev 14; Num 11:16-30 (extension of prophecy beyond Moses); Ex 15:20 (Miriam is called a prophetess); Ex 4:16, 7:1, 16:9 (Aaron as Moses\rquote  prophet or spokesman).  Consult the commentary on Numbers by Jacob Milgrom (The JPS Torah Commentary, Judaic Studies Reference Room, SML Room 335b, call number BS 1235.3.S24 1989 (LC) vol 4).\par \tab (b) Jewish interpretation: The Sifre to Numbers (anonymous rabbinic commentary, 3}{\f0\super\insrsid8148649\charrsid12194482 rd}{\f0\insrsid8148649  c. C.E.).}{\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid4205875 \par }{\b\f0\insrsid8148649 \tab }{\f0\insrsid8148649 Note: The midrash assumes that the reader is familiar with a midrashic tradition that after his ascent to Mt. Sinai, Moses abstained from sexual relations with his wife (see Deut 5:27-29).  Rashi interprets the biblical statement that the people returned to their tents as indicating a return to sexual relations, from which they had abstained for three days (see Ex 19:10-15).  Moses is told to \ldblquote stand by God,\rdblquote  and this is interpreted to mean that Moses abstained from sexual relations with his wife from that point onward so that he would always be in a state of purity and thus might always be able to speak with God.\par \tab The mention of women\rquote s ornaments stems from a word-play on \ldblquote odot\rdblquote [which means \ldblquote because of\rdblquote  or \ldblquote on account of\rdblquote  in Num 12:1] which is spelled with the same consonants as \ldblquote adot\rdblquote  [which means \ldblquote ornaments\rdblquote ].\par \tab (c) Christian interpretation: Fragments from the Lost writings of Irenaus (d. ca. 202 C.E.), as found in XXXII, }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid12194482 The Ante-Nicene Fathers}{\f0\insrsid8148649  vol 1. OR St. Ambrose, Letter LXIII. }{\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid4205875 \par }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par }{\b\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 NOTE}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433   \par 1.  If you wish to write a paper on a different topic, you must clear that topic with your teaching fellow or with the instructor.\par \page }{\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Bibliographic Resources\par }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Critical Introductions to the Bible}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par \par 1. }{\f0\insrsid8148649 John Collins}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 , }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649 Introduction to the Hebrew Bible }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  (}{\f0\insrsid8148649 Fortress Press, Minneapolis}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 ).  }{\f0\insrsid8148649 Judaic Studeis Reference Room, SML 335B and }{\insrsid8148649 Div Library Ref:  BS 1140.3.C65 2004 (LC)\par \par 2. Michael Coogan, }{\i\insrsid8148649\charrsid14765479 Old Testament : a historical and literary introduction to the Hebrew scriptures}{\i\insrsid8148649  }{\insrsid8148649 (New York: Oxford University Press, 2006).  Div Lib Ref, BS 1197.C56X 2006. \par \par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 3}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 . Brevard Childs, }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Introduction to the Old Testament as Scripture}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  (Philadelphia: Fortress, 1979).  CCL: BS 1140.2 C48 1979 (LC).}{\f0\insrsid8148649 \par \par 4. Norman Gottwald, }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid4205875 The Hebrew Bible: A Socio-Literary Introduction}{\f0\insrsid8148649 .  (}{\insrsid8148649 Philadelphia : Fortress Press, c1985.)  CCL Stacks: BS1140.2 G59 1985 (LC)}{\insrsid8148649\charrsid5201829 \par }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649 Commentaries }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 5}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 . }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 The Anchor Bible}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  (Garden City, NY:  Doubleday 1964-1993).  CCL Stacks BS 192.2 A1 1964 G3 (LC);  SML Jud. Studies Ref Room, SML 335B, and Div Lib }{\f0\insrsid8148649 Ref}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  BS 491.2 A5 2.  One volume for each book of the Bible.\par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 \par 6}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 . }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 The Jewish Publication Society (JPS) Commentary}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  (Philadephia: JPS, 1989).  SML Jud. Studies Ref Room, SML 335B, BS 1235.3 S24 1989 (LC).  One volume for each of Gen, Ex, Lev, Num and Dt.\par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 \par 7. }{\i\insrsid8148649\charrsid2627163 The New Interpreter\rquote s Bible}{\insrsid8148649  : general articles & introduction, commentary, & reflections for each book of the Bible, including the Apocryphal/Deuterocanonical books in twelve volumes (Nashville: Abingdon Press, 2004).  Div Lib Ref.  BS491.2 N484 1994. Computer version available, Div Lib.}{\f0\insrsid8148649 \par \par 8. Wenham, Gordon.  }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid7613274 Genesis}{\f0\insrsid8148649 . (Waco, TX: Word Books).\par \par 9. Westermann, Claus.  }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid7613274 Genesis 12-36: A Commentary}{\f0\insrsid8148649 .  (Minneapolis: Augsberg Publishing House, 1985).\par }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Biblical encyclopedia/dictionaries}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par \par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 10}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 . George A. Buttrick, ed.  }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 The Interpreter's Dictionary of the Bible}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 , 4 vols. with }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Supplementary Volume}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  (ed. Keith Crim) (New York: Abingdon, 1976).  Valuable collection of articles on biblical topics.  CCL Ref and SML Ref Room BS 440 I58 (LC); Div Lib }{\f0\insrsid8148649 Ref}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  BS 440 I63.\par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 \par 11}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 . David Noel Freedman, ed.  }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 The Anchor Bible Dictionary}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 , 6 vols. (New York: Doubleday, 1992).  Excellent scholarly articles on various biblical topics.  CCL Ref, SML Ref, Div Lib }{\f0\insrsid8148649 Ref}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 , and SML Jud. Studies Ref Room, SML 335B -- BS 440 A54x 1992 (LC).}{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649 \par \par \par \par \par }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 History of Interpretation}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par \par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 12}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 . S. L. Greenslade, et. al., }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 The Cambridge History of the Bible}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 , 3 vols.  (Cambridge University Press, 1963, 1969, 1970).  SML Ref and CCL Stacks BS 445 C35 (LC); Div Lib }{\f0\insrsid8148649 Ref }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  BS 445 C26.\par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 \par 13. James L. Kugel,  }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid5201829 The Bible as it Was}{\f0\insrsid8148649 .  (}{\insrsid8148649 Cambridge, Mass.: London, England : Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, c1997.)}{\f0\insrsid8148649   }{\insrsid8148649 CCL, Stacks BS1225.2.K84X 1997 (LC).  Also, }{\i\insrsid8148649\charrsid5201829 Traditions of the Bible : a guide to the Bible as it was at the start of the common era}{\insrsid8148649 .  (Cambridge, Mass. : Harvard University Press, 1998.)  Div Lib Ref  BS1225.2K85 1998 \par \par 14. Oxford guide to ideas & issues of the Bible / edited by Bruce M. Metzger, Michael D. Coogan (New York: Oxford University Press, 2001)  Div Lib Ref BS440 O934 2001\par \par 15. Oxford guide to people & places of the Bible / edited by Bruce M. Metzger, Michael D. Coogan (New York: Oxford University Press, 2001)  ELECTRONIC RESOURCE \endash  connect directly from Orbis.}{\insrsid8148649\charrsid2627163 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx2460\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8148649 {\f0\insrsid8148649 \tab }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Concordances}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  (for word searches)\par \par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 15}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 . James Strong, }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Exhaustive Concordance of the Bible}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  (Nashville: Abingdon, 1967, 1970, 1973, 1980).  SML Stacks BS 425 +S87 1970 (LC);  Art and Architecture Ref BS 425 S87 1980 (LC).\par }{\f0\insrsid8148649 \par 16}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 . Robert Young, }{\i\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid5201829 Analytical Concordance to the Bible}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  (New York: Funk and Wagnalls, 1955).  SML Ref  BS 425 +Y68 1955 (LC).\par \par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \page Exegetical Method}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par \tab These notes are not exhaustive or normative.  They are intended as a guide to the understanding of a biblical passage, and not all will be relevant in each case.  The steps listed here are also not progressive.\par \par 1.  }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Focus}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  on 1-3 key verses, or parts of verses in your passage and }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 formulate an interpretive question}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  regarding each.  You have been doing this in your discussion sections all along.  For example, in Gen 22 key verses and interpretive questions are v. 1 (what does it mean for God to put someone to a test?), v. 5 (why does Abraham tell the servants that he and Isaac will return from the mountain?), v. 8 (what does Abraham mean when he says that God will provide the ram, and does Isaac suspect the truth?), and v. 12 (why does God know only now that Abraham fears him?).\par \par 2.  }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Text}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 :  By comparing translations and consulting commentaries you will be able to determine if there are any significant textual variants or ambiguities of translation that might bear on your interpretation of the verse.  If there are variants, is it possible to determine which is a better or more original reading?\par \par 3. }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Context}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 :  Look at your verses in their immediate context.  Do they belong to a larger literary unit and do they serve a particular function there?  Do other verses in the context shed light on the meaning of the verses you are interpreting?  How do your verses derive meaning from the surrounding material?\par \par 4. }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Literary Style}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 :  Are there any striking literary devices, such as metaphor, parallelism, repetition, word play?  Are there significant words or themes that recur in the Bible (check a Concordance)?  If so, is their use in other contexts similar or different?  How do such literary devices and recuring words or themes affect the meaning of the verses you are interpreting.\par \par 5. }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Background}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 :  Check on other biblical sources that shed light on the vocabulary, form, function or style of your verses.  You may certainly go beyond the references provided if you so choose.\par \par 6. }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Literary history}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 :  Is the passage a coherent unit, the work of one author or does it show signs of a complex literary history (e.g., inconsistencies that suggest a combination of sources, or signs of editing)?}{\f0\insrsid8148649   (Note: you do not have to consider source critical theories in order to develop an interpretation of your passage.  If you do, you must still account for the final form of the passage \endash  how it signifies given the combination of two or more sources).}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par \par 7.  }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Meaning}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 :  }{\f0\insrsid8148649 Asking a series of questions might help you consider the problem of meaning: }{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 What did your verses mean to their author(s)? }{\f0\insrsid8148649 What might they have meant to an Ancient Israelite audience?}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  What meanings have been assigned to these verses by the traditional Jewish and Christian commentators you consulted, and how did they arrive at those meanings?\par \par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \page Additional Information and Hints\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par 1. Biblical citations do not require a footnote.  Just provide the citation in parentheses after the quote, e.g.,  "When God began creating..." (Gen 1:1).\par \par 2. Articles in encyclopedia/dictionaries }{\f0\insrsid8148649 should be}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433  listed by author of the individual article e.g., Author, "Title of Article,"  }{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 Book or Reference Work}{\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 , editor (city:publisher, date) volume number (if any), page numbers.\par \par 3. Pay attention to the footnotes and bibliographies in the books and articles you use.  These citations will supplement the references and resources provided here.\par \par 4. When an author cites a biblical passage or verse in support of his or her argument CHECK IT OUT.  Does the passage really support the point he or she is trying to make?}{\f0\ul\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8148649 {\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f214\fs20 Copyright \u169\'a9 2007 Yale University.  Some rights reserved.  Unless otherwise indicated on this document or on the Open Yale Courses web site, all content is licensed under a Creative Commons License (Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0).\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\insrsid8148649\charrsid13984433 \par }}