{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid6691924\rsid8284358\rsid14636061}{\info{\title Rel St 145a -- Introduction to the Old Testament/Hebrew Bible}{\author fsp}{\operator Jeffrey Levick}{\creatim\yr2007\mo5\dy4\hr15\min31}{\revtim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr17\min24}{\version3}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords454}{\nofchars2591}{\*\company Yale University}{\nofcharsws3181}{\vern24967}}\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot6691924 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid14636061\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid14636061 \lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\ul\insrsid6691924\charrsid8284358 Rel St 145a -- Introduction to the Old Testament/Hebrew Bible\par }{\insrsid14636061 Midterm Exam Review Sheet\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid14636061 \par \tab The midterm exam will consist of three sections to be completed in one hour.  \par }{\b\insrsid14636061 \tab }{\b\insrsid14636061\charrsid8284358 Sections 1 and 2}{\insrsid14636061  will be administered in sections during the week of October 16 (different versions for each section meeting).  20 minutes of section time will be allotted to this component of the exam.\par \tab }{\b\insrsid14636061\charrsid8284358 Section 3}{\insrsid14636061  will be done on a take-home basis on the honor system.  Allot yourselves 30 minutes in a quiet spot to write an essay in response to one of the questions without the aid of notes, books or Bible.  Simulate an in-class exam situation.  The essay questions will be uploaded to the course website and e-mailed to students on Monday, October 16th at 6 p.m..  Please return the essay by e-mail to your TF by the deadline listed on the exam (you will be given a 24 hour period).\par }{\b\insrsid14636061\charrsid8284358 \tab NOTE: STUDENTS IN THE WRITING REQUIREMENT SECTION ARE EXEMPT FROM SECTION 3}{\b\insrsid14636061  OF THE MIDTERM}{\b\insrsid14636061\charrsid8284358 .  ON-GOING WRITING ASSIGNMENTS SERVE AS ASSESSMENT TOOLS IN PLACE OF THE MID-TERM ESSAY.\par }{\insrsid14636061 \par A fuller description of each component of the exam appears below.\par \par }{\b\insrsid14636061\charrsid8284358 Section 1}{\insrsid14636061  will ask you to identify the speaker in a number of biblical passages.  If you have been keeping up with the assigned readings of biblical text, this should not be difficult.  \par \par }{\b\insrsid14636061\charrsid8284358 Section 2}{\insrsid14636061  contains short identifications.  You will be asked to identify and explain the importance of a number of terms and names in 2-3 sentences or sentence fragments.  NOTE:  do not exceed 2-3 informative sentences.  These are not paragraph answers and longer answers do not earn more points.  \par \tab The identifications will be drawn from the following list:\par \tab Baal, covenant, decalogue, documentary hypothesis, El, Enkidu, Enuma Elish, Esau, form criticism, Gilgamesh, Horeb, Hyksos, Merneptah, JEPD, impurity, Marduk, Mosaic covenant, Noahide covenant, Passover, patriarchal covenant, Sinai, Sodom, source criticism, Tiamat, tree of life, Wellhausen, William F. Albright\par \par }{\b\insrsid14636061\charrsid8284358 Section 3}{\insrsid14636061  is an essay question.  Here you should strive to give as full an answer as is possible in the time allotted (40 minutes) \endash  WITHOUT flowery prose or lengthy introductions.  The goal is substance not style, so keep it streamlined and to the point.  Imagine that you are in a regular exam room environment \endash  you are not to consult notes, look up or quote texts, or cite page numbers in articles you have read.  You are merely to answer the question asked in a full and informative essay as you would do in an in-class midterm.  The essay choices will focus on the major themes of the course to date.  Thus questions will be formulated in such a way as to allow you to discuss such topics as\par \tab a. The indebtedness of Israelite culture and religion to Ancient Near Eastern culture and religion \par \tab b. Models for understanding the emergence of Israelite culture and religion\par \tab c. Modern critical approaches to the study of the Bible}{\par }{\f214\fs20 \par Copyright \u169\'a9 2007 Yale University.  Some rights reserved.  Unless otherwise indicated on this document or on the Open Yale Courses web site, all content is licensed under a Creative Commons License (Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0).\par }{\insrsid14636061 \par }}