{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times};}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid7677299\rsid13922411}{\info{\title Canaanite Religion as a Background for Patriarchal and Early Israelite Religion}{\author Jeffrey Levick}{\operator Jeffrey Levick}{\creatim\yr2007\mo5\dy4\hr15\min39}{\revtim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr17\min25}{\version4}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords603}{\nofchars3438}{\nofcharsws4222}{\vern24967}}\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\rsidroot1777240 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid7677299\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7677299 \lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid7677299\charrsid13922411 Canaanite Religion as a Background for Patriarchal and Early Israelite Religion\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7677299 {\insrsid7677299\charrsid13922411 \par The Ras Shamra texts (site of ancient Ugarit) dating from 1500-1200 B.C.E.) provide\par important information about Canaanite religion. Ugarit is representative of a larger\par cultural continuum that included 2nd-1st millennium Syria-Palestine and formed the\par background for the formation of the tribes of Israel. These texts attest to aspects of\par Canaanite culture and mythology that the ancient Israelites alternately shared, adopted,\par modified and rejected.\par \par }{\ul\insrsid7677299\charrsid13922411 The Ugaritic gods and goddesses\par \par }{\insrsid7677299\charrsid13922411 1. El. Literally, "god" but also the personal name for the head of the Canaanite pantheon\par and council of the gods until overthrown by Baal. He is also called: King, Creator of All,\par Father of years, Kind, Compassionate. He is represented as a patriarchal god who dwells\par in a tent. EI appears throughout Semitic cultures as Allah (=El) in Arabic religion and\par }{\i\insrsid7677299\charrsid13922411 EI/Elohim }{\insrsid7677299\charrsid13922411 in the Hebrew Bible.\par \par 2. Baal. Literally "master" but also "husband." Son of the grain god Dagan, Baal was a\par storm god. By 1000 B.C.E. he had become the chief diety and head of the Canaanite\par pantheon. He is featured in a fertility myth in which he is killed by Mot, the god of\par death, and then restored to life (a Canaanite version of the myth of a dying and rising god that is linked to the cycle of nature and agriculture). Another story tells of a battle\par between Baal the storm god and the chaotic watery demon Yamm (reminiscent of the\par battle between Marduk and Tiamat in Mesopotamian myth and reflected in Israel's\par demythologized version of creation in which God's wind moves over the watery deep,\par and in God's parting the Reed Sea by a blast from his nostrils. In the Bible, Baal appears\par frequently as Yahweh's rival.\par \par 3. Asherah. Wife of EI, but in the Hebrew Bible the consort of Baal, evidence of Baal's .\par usurpation of El's position. In the Hebrew Bible the term asherah (plural asherim) refers\par to a sacred tree or pole associated with the cultic worship of a goddess. But Asherah is\par mentioned by name in I and II Kings.\par \par 4. Anat. Baal's wife and sister. A fertility goddess, and goddess of both love and war.\par Anat is violent and bloodthirsty. She is later supplanted by or merged with Astarte (= the\par Mesopotamian goddess Ishtar from which the Hebrew name Esther derives) and appears\par as such in the Bible in I and II Kings.\par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par \par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7677299 {\insrsid7677299\charrsid13922411 Titles of the God of Israel\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7677299 {\insrsid7677299\charrsid13922411 1. E1 Shadday. Literally, "EI, the one of the mountain" but the common translation is\par "God Almighty." In Canaanite myth, EI is said to live on a mountain. EI Shadday}{\charrsid13922411  }{\insrsid7677299\charrsid13922411 occurs\par in Gen 17:1,28:3,35:11,43:14,48:3,49:25; Ex 6:3.\par \par 2. EI Elyon. Literally, "God most High." Mentioned only in Gen 14:18-22 and Ps 78:35,\par but Elyon alone occurs frequently.\par \par 3. EI Olam. "The Everlasting God." Gen 21:33. This title can be compared to the\par Ugaritic titles for EI as "E1,the Eternal One." .\par \par 4. EI Ro'i. "A God of Seeing." Gen 16:13.\par \par 5. E1 Bethel. "The God of the House of God" Gen 31:13, 35:7.\par \par 6. The Fear of Isaac. Gen 31:42, 53.\par \par 7. The Bull of Jacob. Or "the mighty one of Jacob." Gen 49:24; Ps 132:2, 5; Isa 49:26;\par 60:16.\par \par 8. EI, the god of: AbrahamiIsaac/Israel/my father Abraham, etc. Gen 26:24,28: 13,32:9,\par 33:20,43:23,46:1,3; Ex 3:15.\par \par }{\ul\insrsid7677299\charrsid13922411 Yahweh as "Baal"\par }{\insrsid7677299\charrsid13922411 \par Although identified explicitly as EI (e.g., in Ex 6:3), Yahweh also has a number of traits\par in common with Baal. Like Baal he is called "rider on the clouds" (Ps 68:4) and there are\par allusions to a battle with sea/river in Ex 15, Ps 114 and Isa 51:9-11. Thus Yahweh is a\par composite of features of EI and Baal. This new deity required a new name and it was\par fitting that the new God be introduced at the time of the Exodus, which sees the\par formation of a new people about to make the transition from the semi-nomadic tent-dwelling existence of the patriarchs (whose God EI also dwelled in a tent) to the settled urban way of life in Canaan (the Canaanite Baal lived in a house).}{\charrsid13922411 \par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f214\fs20 Copyright \u169\'a9 2007 Yale University.  Some rights reserved.  Unless otherwise indicated on this document or on the Open Yale Courses web site, all content is licensed under a Creative Commons License (Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0).\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7677299 {\insrsid7677299\charrsid13922411 \par }}