{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff2\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 footer;}{\*\cs16 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3015931\rsid4608626\rsid5190544\rsid5774366\rsid9460592\rsid9844473\rsid11886604}{\info{\title Modern Poetry (Handout 2)}{\author swing machine}{\operator Jeffrey Levick}{\creatim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr16\min12}{\revtim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr16\min57}{\version4}{\edmins0}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords794}{\nofchars4527}{\nofcharsws5559}{\vern24967}}\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\rsidroot7370176 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\footer \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5190544 \f2\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\field{\*\fldinst {\cs16\insrsid5190544 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs16\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid3015931 3}}}{\cs16\insrsid5190544 \par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri360\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin360\lin0\itap0\pararsid5190544 {\insrsid5190544 \par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqr\tx9360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5190544 \f2\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 \par Modern Poetry (Handout 2)\tab Prof. Hammer\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5190544 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 Lecture 2 Robert Frost\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473  \par You mustn\rquote t take me too seriously if I now proceed to brag a bit about my exploits as a poet.  There is one qualifying fact always to bear in mind: there is a kind of success called \ldblquote of esteem\rdblquote  and it butters no parsnips.  It means a success with the critical few who are supposed to know.  But really to arrive where I can stand on my legs as a poet and nothing else I must get outside that circle to the general reader who buys books in their thousands.  I may not be able to do that.  I believe in doing it--don\rquote t you doubt me there.  I want to be a poet for all sorts and kinds.  I could never make a merit of being caviare to the crowd the way my quasi-friend Pound does.  I want to reach out, and would if it were a thing I could do by taking thought.--Frost to John Bartlett, November 1913\par \par Robert Frost has, let us admit, done a book of New England eclogues. . . . Still, a set of provincial studies, local, a bit dull, is a very different thing from poetry which accepts the tone and difficulties of contemporary civilization.---Ezra Pound to John Gould Fletcher (American poet), June 1920\par \par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5190544 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 I alone of English writers have consciously set myself to make music out of what I may call the sound of sense.  Now it is possible to have sense without the sound of sense (as in much prose that is supposed to pass muster but makes very dull reading) and the sound of sense without sense (as in Alice in Wonderland which makes anything but dull reading).  The best place to get the abstract sound of sense is from voices behind a door that cuts off the words. . . .\par . . . The sound of sense, then.  You get that.  It is the abstract vitality of our speech.  It is pure sound--pure form.  One who concerns himself with it more than the subject is an artist.  But remember we are still talking merely of the raw material of poetry.  An ear and an appetite for these sounds of sense is the first qualification of a writer, be it of prose or verse.  But if one is to be a poet he must learn to get cadences by skillfully breaking the sounds of sense with all their irregularity of accent across the regular beat of the metre.  Verse in which there is nothing but the beat of the metre furnished by the accents of the pollysyllabic words we call doggerel.  Verse is not that.  Neither is it the sound of sense alone.  It is the resultant from those two.  There are only two or three metres that are worth anything.  We depend for variety on the infinite play of accents in the sound of sense.--Frost to John Bartlett, July 1913\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5190544 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 \par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5190544 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 My versification seems to bother people more than I should have expected--I suppose because I have been so long accustomed to thinking of it in my own private way.  It is as simple as this: there are the very regular preestablished accent and measure of blank verse; and there are the very irregular accent and measure of speaking intonation.  I am never more pleased than when I can get these into strained relation.  I like to drag and break the intonation across the meter as waves first comb and then break stumbling on the shingle.  That\rquote s all but it\rquote s no mere figure of speech though one can make figures enough about it.--Frost to John Cournos, July 1914 \par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqr\tx9360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5190544 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 Modern Poetry, Image List, Lecture 2\tab Prof. Hammer\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5190544 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 \par To review the images discussed in lecture today, go to English 310a, Modern Poetry, on the classes server, and look under \ldblquote materials\rdblquote  for a Power Point file named \ldblquote FrostImages.\rdblquote  The list that follows describes the images and their sources in the sequence presented in lecture.\par \par ---\ldblquote Robert Frost: American Bard,\rdblquote  John Ciardi, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 Saturday Review}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473  (March 24, 1962) [In Glenway Wescott\rquote s notebook, \ldblquote Robert Frost, Culture Hero,\rdblquote  Yale Collection of American Literature, Beinecke]\par \par ---Copy of oil portrait of Robert Frost by Gardner Cox [Wescott Papers, YCAL, Beinecke]\par \par ---\ldblquote President Hails Bond with Frost: On TV He Extols Poet, Who Calls New Frontier \lquote Age of Poetry and Power,\rdblquote  McCandlish Phillips, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 New York Times}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 , February 27, 1961 [Wescott Papers, YCAL, Beinecke]\par \par ---Photos of Frost with children and with cows; \ldblquote Robert Frost: American Bard,\rdblquote  John Ciardi, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 Saturday Review}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473  (March 24, 1962) [Wescott Papers, YCAL, Beinecke]\par \par ---Photo of Frost with a stick, c. 1960 [Wescott Papers, YCAL, Beinecke]\par \par ---\ldblquote Summer Farm Scene,\rdblquote  oil painting by George Durrie c. 1860; Shelburne Museum, Shelburne MA\par \par ---\ldblquote The City of Ambition,\rdblquote  photo by Alfred Stieglitz, 1910 [YCAL, Beinecke]\par \par ---\ldblquote Summer Showers,\rdblquote  oil painting by Martin Johnson Heade c. 1870 [Brooklyn Museum]\par \par ---Brooklyn Bridge by Walker Evans, 1929 [source: Evans, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 The Hungry Eye}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 ]\par \par ---Robert Frost at 18, 1892 [source: Parini, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 Robert Frost}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 ]\par \par }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 ---}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 Robert Frost}{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 , A Boy\rquote s Will}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473  (London: D. Nutt, 1913); front cover}{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473  }{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 [YCAL, Beinecke]\par \par }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 ---}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 Robert Frost,}{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473  A Boy\rquote s Will }{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 (London: D. Nutt, 1913); table of contents [YCAL, Beinecke]\par \par ---Robert Frost at 39 in London, 1913 [source: Parini, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 Robert Frost}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 ]\par \par ---Robert Frost, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 North of Boston}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473  (London: D. Nutt, 1915); front cover and title page [YCAL, Beinecke]\par \par ---T. S. Eliot, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 Prufrock and Other Observations}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473  (London: The Egoist, 1917); title page and table of contents  [YCAL, Beinecke]\par }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 ---Robert Frost, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 North of Boston}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473  (London: D. Nutt, 1915); table of contents [YCAL]}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid3015931\charrsid9844473 \par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3015931 {\f214\fs20\ulnone\insrsid3015931\charrsid3015931 Copyright \u169\'a9 2007 Yale University.  Some rights reserved.  Unless otherwise indicated on this document or on the Open Yale Courses web site, all content is licensed under a Creative Commons License (Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0).\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\insrsid5190544\charrsid9844473 \par }}