{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff2\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f2\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020703090202050204}Courier New;}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 footer;}{\*\cs16 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1840944\rsid3159304\rsid3673582\rsid5074476\rsid5773740\rsid7279467\rsid11740419\rsid12993279\rsid14355985\rsid14375609}{\info{\title Modern Poetry                                          Prof}{\author swing machine}{\operator Jeffrey Levick}{\creatim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr16\min12}{\revtim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr16\min59}{\version4}{\edmins1}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords703}{\nofchars4012}{\nofcharsws4927}{\vern24967}}\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\rsidroot5074476 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\footer \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12993279 \f2\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\field{\*\fldinst {\cs16\insrsid12993279 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs16\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid1840944 1}}}{\cs16\insrsid12993279 \par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri360\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin360\lin0\itap0\pararsid12993279 {\insrsid12993279 \par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12993279 \f2\ul\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 Modern Poetry (Handout 4)                       Prof. Hammer\par Lecture 4 on W.B.Yeats\par \par I believe in the practice and philosophy of what we have agreed to call magic, in what I must call the evocation of spirits, though I do not know what they are, in the power of creating magical illusions, in the visions of truth in the depths of the mind when the eyes are closed; and I believe in three doctrines, which have, as I think, been handed down from early times, and been the foundations of nearly all magical practices. These doctrines are:---\par }\pard \ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12993279 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 (1) That the borders of our mind are ever shifting, and that many minds can flow into one another, as it were, and create or reveal a single mind, a single energy.\par (2) That the borders of our memories are as shifting, and that our memories are part of one great memory, the memory of Nature herself.\par (3) That this great mind and great memory can be evoked by symbols.\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12993279 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 ---Yeats, "Magic" (1901)\par \par \par When I try to put all into a phrase I say, 'Man can embody truth but he cannot know it.' I must embody it in the completion of my life. The abstract is not life and everywhere draws out its contradictions. You can refute Hegel but not the Saint or the song of experience.\par ---Yeats, letter to Elizabeth Pelham, January 4, 1939\par \par \par \par \tab . . . I think that the true poetic movement of our time is towards some heroic discipline. People much occupied with morality always lose heroic ecstasy. Those who have it most often are those [Ernest] Dowson has described (I cannot find the poem [\ldblquote Villanelle of the Poet\rquote s Road\rdblquote ] but the lines run like this or something like this\par \par \tab Wine and women and song\par \tab To us they belong\par \tab To us the bitter and gay.\par \par \lquote Bitter & gay\rquote  is the heroic mood. When there is despair, public or private, when settled order seems lost, people look for strengths within or without. Auden, Spender, all that seem the new movement }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 look}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304  for strength in Marxian socialism, or in Major Souglas, they want marching feet. The lasting expression of our time is not this obvious choice but in a sense of something steel-like & cold within the will, something passionate and cold.\par \tab . . . I notice that you have much lapis lazuli; someone has sent me a present of a great piece carved by some Chinese sculptor into the semblance of a mountain with temple, trees, paths and an ascetic and pupil about to climb the mountain. Ascetic, pupil, hard stone, eternal theme of the sensual east. The heroic cry in the midst of despair. But no, I am wrong, the east has its solutions always and therefore knows nothing of tragedy. It is we, not the east, that must raise the heroic cry.\par ---Yeats, letter to Dorothy Wellesley, July 6, 1936\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqr\tx9360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12993279 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 \page Modern Poetry, Image list, Yeats \tab Prof. Hammer\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12993279 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 \par \par To review the images discussed in lecture today, go to English 310a, Modern Poetry, on the classes server, and look under \ldblquote materials\rdblquote  for a Power Point file named \ldblquote YeatsImages.\rdblquote  The list that follows describes the images and their sources in the sequence presented in lecture.\par \par ---Painting of Yeats as Mad King Goll by his father, J. B. Yeats, reproduced in the }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 Leisure Hour}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 , September 1887\par \par ---Maud Gonne, aged 23 in 1889, when Yeats met her [Foster, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 Yeats}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 ]\par \par ---W. B. Yeats, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 The Wind Among the Reeds}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304  (London: Elkin Mathews, 1899); cover, title page, and table of contents [Beinecke]\par \par ---W. B. Yeats in his study in }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 The Tatler}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 , 29 June 1904 [R. F. Foster, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 W. B. Yeats: A Life; Volume I: The Apprentice Mage}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 , Oxford UP, 1997)\par \par ---Letter from W. B. Yeats to Ezra Pound, June 14, 1913 [Beinecke]\par \par ---W. B. Yeats, }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 Responsibilities}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304  (London: Macmillan, 1916) cover and table of contents [Beinecke]\par \par ---Photo of the Lake Isle of Innisfree [Beinecke]\par \par \par \par And now I wander in the woods\par When summer gluts the golden bees,\par Or in autumnal solitudes\par Arise the leopard-coloured trees;\par Or when along the wintry strands\par The cormorants shiver on their rocks;\par I wander on, and wave my hands,\par And sing, and shake my heavy locks.\par The grey wolf knows me; by one ear\par I lead along the woodland deer;\par The hares run by me growing bold.\par }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 They will not hush, the leaves a-flutter round, the beech leaves old.\par \par }{\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 \tab *\tab \tab *\tab \tab *\par \par I sang how, when day\rquote s toil is done,\par Orchil shakes out her long dark hair\par That hides away the dying sun\par And sheds faint odours through the air:\par When my hand passed from wire to wire\par It quenched, with sound like falling dew,\par The whirling and the wandering fire;\par But lift a mournful ulalu,\par For the kind wires are torn and still,\par And I must wander wood and hill\par Through summer\rquote s heat and winter\rquote s cold.\par }{\i\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 They will not hush, the leaves a-flutter round, the beech leaves old.}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 \par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\ulnone\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 From W. B. Yeats, \ldblquote The Madness of King Goll\rdblquote  (1889)}{\f0\ulnone\insrsid1840944\charrsid3159304 \par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid1840944 {\f214\fs20\ulnone\insrsid1840944\charrsid1840944 Copyright \u169\'a9 2007 Yale University.  Some rights reserved.  Unless otherwise indicated on this document or on the Open Yale Courses web site, all content is licensed under a Creative Commons License (Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0).\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f0\insrsid12993279\charrsid3159304 \par }}