{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f22\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2 Lucida Grande;}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f22\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2 Lucida Grande;}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f22\fs18\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Balloon Text;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1192673\rsid3556225\rsid5451622\rsid10190499}{\info{\title Modern Poetry, Spring 2007}{\author Jeffrey Levick}{\operator Jeffrey Levick}{\creatim\yr2007\mo8\dy17\hr14\min5}{\revtim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr17\min3}{\version3}{\edmins4}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords465}{\nofchars2653}{\nofcharsws3258}{\vern24967}}\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale125\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\rsidroot1777240 \fet0\sectd \linex0\cols2\endnhere\colno1\colw3960\colsr720\colno2\colw3960\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3556225 \lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid3556225\charrsid5451622 Modern Poetry, Spring 2007\par Section\par }\pard \ql \li1890\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin1890\itap0\pararsid3556225 {\insrsid3556225\charrsid5451622 Andrew Goldstone\par }\pard \ql \fi1890\li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3556225 {\insrsid3556225\charrsid5451622 April 19, 2007\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3556225 {\b\insrsid3556225\charrsid5451622 \sect }\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid3556225\sftnbj \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3556225 \lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid3556225\charrsid5451622 \par Thoughts on Writing Critically About Two Texts\par }{\insrsid3556225\charrsid5451622 In writing about two texts, you navigate between the Scylla of similarity and the\par Charybdis of difference. On the one hand, in order for the conjunction of two\par texts to make a persuasive structure for your paper, you will have to assert that\par your two texts have something notable in common; on the other hand, in order to\par find a sufficiently rich and interesting theme for your paper, you will have to do\par more than merely assert that the two objects do the same thing in the same way.\par Likewise, the specific techniques of analysis you deploy must be both unified\emdash \par in order to establish the consistency of your point of view\emdash and dissimilar\emdash in\par order to produce variety and not to reduce the two texts to two indistinguishable\par examples of the same abstract principle.\par \par These cautions are meant to apply equally whether you discuss two poems\par by the same author, two poems by different authors, or one poem and one nonpoetic\par text. Go beyond \ldblquote comparing and contrasting\rdblquote  to consider the full range of\par possible relationships between two connected texts: thesis and antithesis; primary\par and secondary alternatives; theory and practice; statement and retraction; deception\par and revelation; early attempt and later achievement; early achievement and\par later decline; and so on. Your paper, in short, should first construct a relationship\par between your two texts\emdash in full consciousness that every such relationship is a\par construction\emdash and then go on to problematize that relationship. These twin tasks\par are accomplished partly by your explicit statements, but\emdash just as importantly\emdash \par also by the design of your paper. Think carefully about your order of presentation\par of evidence.\par \par Two is a difficult number; it demands generalization without furnishing enough\par evidence for a full justification. With two poems, for example, one is often compelled\par simply to say, \ldblquote These two poems face the same problem and solve it differently.\rdblquote \par That\rquote s quite all right\emdash but the conclusion to such an argument must at least\par suggest why different solutions to the same problem are chosen. The best way to\par approach that conclusion is to hew close to detailed readings of both texts, taking\par for granted as little as possible what each says and how it says it.\par }{\b\insrsid3556225\charrsid5451622 \par Admonishment: Mechanics\par }{\insrsid3556225\charrsid5451622 Please follow the conventions of standard written American English. I am liberal\par but uneasy on such issues as the split infinitive and the sentence-final preposition.\par For citations and bibliography, you are asked to consult the guidelines in the pamphlet\par Some Matters of Form. Format papers double-spaced and in twelve-point font,\par with numbered pages and 1 or 1.25 inch margins (to leave room for comments).\par Beware the distracting power of even a single blemish\emdash or, conversely, remember\par that the gleam of a polished surface can be very helpful for distracting the eye from\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid3556225\charrsid5451622 the cracks or flaws that might lie underneath.}{\insrsid10190499\charrsid5451622 \par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10190499 {\f214\fs20\insrsid10190499\charrsid10190499 \par Copyright \u169\'a9 2007 Yale University.  Some rights reserved.  Unless otherwise indicated on this document or on the Open Yale Courses web site, all content is licensed under a Creative Commons License (Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0).\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid1192673\charrsid5451622 \par }}