<div id="fileContents">
  <h2><strong> European Civilization, 1648-1945:</strong> Lecture 13 Transcript</h2>
  <table cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" id="transcriptHeader" summary="transcript header">	<tbody>		<tr>			<td id="transcriptDate">October 20, 2008</td>			<td id="transcriptNav"><span id="forwardNav"><a href="javascript:history.go(-1);">&lt;&lt; back</a></span></td>		</tr>	</tbody></table></p><p><b>Professor John Merriman:</b> It's kind of a complicated
lecture today. I want to talk about nationalism and I do so with a
skepticism that you'll quickly pick up on. Aggressive nationalism helped
unleash the demons of the twentieth century, beginning with World War I,
which unleashed even more dangerous demons after that. I want to talk
about nationalism and particularly in--a little bit of France, but in
places that one doesn't usually consider. I'll end up drawing on my
friend Tim Snyder's work to talk a little bit about Lithuania and
Belarus, and why their nationalism were very different and, in the
second case, didn't really exist at all in the nineteenth century. And
I'm going to give a counter example, which I treat in the book but is
the Austria-Hungarian Empire.</p><p>It's funny, because one couldn't
have imagined in the 1970s, looking nostalgically back on the
Austria-Hungarian Empire, this polyglot Habsburg regime. But the horrors
of the Balkans really made lots of historians and other social
scientists look back and try to figure out how it was that--instead of
asking why it was the Austria-Hungarian Empire collapsed during World
War I, or really at the end of World War I, turning the question around
and saying, "How did it hold together so long?" So, the
Austria-Hungarian Empire is sort of a counter example to these
nationalisms. One of the things that brought the empire down, along with
the war, was competing national claims from ethnic minorities within
those vast domains. </p><p>I want to start with a story. It's a book I
read maybe five or six years ago. Histories have their histories, so I'm
going to tell the history of this particular book. You'll see kind of
what I'm getting at. By the way, I sent out--one of you had a great
idea, emailed me saying, "Why don't you send out the terms before the
lecture?" That was a great idea. I'd never thought of that. I did it
last night, though I didn't put this particular book on it. Anyway, the
book is Anastasia Karakasidou's,<i> Fields of Wheat, Hills of Blood:
Passages to Nationhood in Greek Macedonia, 1870-1990.</i> When I say
that histories have their own history, what I mean is the following.
</p><p>In this book, this anthropologist, who is from both Turkish and
Greek extraction on either side of her family, is writing a book about a
small part of Macedonia. Macedonia, of course, was heavily contested for
centuries. A trade route went through it. In Macedonia there were Turks,
and there were Serbs, and there were Bulgarians, and Macedonians, and
Greeks. For centuries they had all basically gotten along as that part
of the Balkans, as you know, in the past was under the Ottoman Empire
and then through a whole series of arrangements, of wars, the Balkan
wars before World War I, passed back and forth.</p><p>Essentially, that
is one of the points of the book, is that basically people got along
very well, but that gradually what happened is that among competing
national claims that part of Macedonia became seen by Greeks as part of
greater Greece. Whenever you hear the term "greater Greece," or "greater
Serbia," or "greater Germany," or greater anything, look out. What that
means is that in the imaginary, in the view of nationalists,
particularly aggressive nationalists, parts of the territories that have
large percentages of a certain ethnic group or even in some cases only
minorities, but in other cases majorities, should be included, come what
may, in the greater state of that particular ethnic group. If you take
the example of Kosovo, and Kosovo has about eighty-five percent of the
population is made up of Albanian Muslims. Kosovo was part of Serbia.
When Milosevic was talking about "greater Serbia," greater Serbia for
him could not exist unless Kosovo, with its eighty-five percent of
people who weren't Serb, was included in that. Anyway, that's another
story. </p><p>What happened with this particular book is that when this
book was in manuscript, arguing that basically the idea that Macedonia
was Greek was a construction, was an invention, an invented identity by
Greek nationalists, the press, the university press, I guess since this
is being recorded I shouldn't say which one that was, chickened out and
decided not to publish the book. At one point they got a bomb threat
from Greek nationalists saying that, "If you publish this book, we will
blow up your offices in Europe." So, they chickened out. In an example
of just utter, craven cowardice refused to publish the book. They sent
this author, whom I don't know--I've read the book. It's a really
terrific book--and said, "Sorry. We're not going to publish your book.
Too bad, contract or no contract." So, University of Chicago Press
published the book, and when the book came out this particular author
received a lot of hate mail. She received a picture of herself with a
picture of a Greek flag stuck through where her heart would be. These
are fairly serious threats. </p><p>The point of that is not to jump on
Greek nationalists or on Serb nationalists, though certainly the Serb
ultranationalists have done just an incredible amount of damage in the
Balkans over the past decades, but merely to underline the point that
national identities are constructed. They're invented. They're, in a
way, imaginary. One of the most interesting sort of historical things
you could do as an historian is to try to figure out, from where do
these identities come? Language plays a lot of it. Maybe if I have time,
because I've got to do a lot today, but this is more of a conversation
than a lecture. If I have time I might talk a little bit about language
in the case of France. But, in doing so, like most people talking about
nationalism, I'm drawing on some of the thinking of Benedict Anderson,
and his concept that nationalism and the construction of national
self-identity represents "imagined communities." </p><p>Basically, if
you consider yourself a member of X nationality, you are creating links
or you are agreeing to links with people whom you don't know, people
that live in Portland, Oregon, or people that live in Albuquerque, New
Mexico, or people that live in New Jersey, even though we are sitting
here in Connecticut. One of the useful aspects of Anderson's account is
yet again to look back at the construction of nationalism to see that
here we have that old story. It's states and large-scale economic change
that are the two driving forces in the construction of national
identities. </p><p>I've gone on, at least in two lectures and part of
another one talking about British national identity--and I'm certainly
not going to go through that again, except to say that it was
precociously early, the sense of being British. I also argued along the
lines that we can now, at least for elites, say that French national
identity began to be constructed in at least by the middle of the
eighteenth century. When you think of the real hotspots, the real
trouble spots of the twentieth century, when you think of the origins of
World War I, which we will be doing and thinking out loud together over
the next couple weeks, we will be considering Eastern Europe, Central
Europe, and the Balkans. </p><p>What's important to understand, and this
is a reasonably decent transition from the initial discussion of this
anthropologist's excellent book, is that in most of those places there
was no sense of national identity, of being Slovene, of being Czech, of
being Croat, of being Bulgarian, of being Ukrainian or Ruthenian--the
two are essentially the same--until quite late in the nineteenth
century. Part of what's going on in Europe between the 1880s and 1914 is
this is an incredible "advancement," if you want to call it that, in
thinking with the emergence of ethnic national identities competing and
demanding their own states in that part of the world. </p><p>When, in
late June 1914, a sixteen-year-old heavily-armed guy, Serb
nationalist--I once put my feet, which no longer--my feet still exist,
but the steps in Sarajevo no longer exist because of all the bombing, in
the place where Princip shot Archduke Franz Ferdinand, the assassination
that led, because of this sort of entangling diplomatic alliances, to
World War I. He was someone who practically could not have existed in
the middle of the nineteenth century, even though among Serb elites
there was a national sense. I'm going to give you some examples taken
from Anderson of even the publication of the very first dictionaries in
languages that now are quite common for us to identify with ethnic
national states. In fact, some of these languages did not even have
their own written dictionaries until the middle of the nineteenth
century. That's not so long ago. Nationalism has to be constructed. A
sense of self-identity has to be constructed. That's what I want to talk
about. </p><p>Let me say something at the beginning. Because of the
French Revolution and because of the development in Europe and in other
places of parliamentary regimes and democracies, it's fairly common to
think, "National self-consciousness equals a desire for national states
and you can't have that with a monarchy." That's not really true at all.
That's influenced, for example, by the experience of the United States.
In the United States, the thirteen colonies, English was overwhelmingly
the language of the thirteen colonies. They are rebelling in 1776 and
all of that against other English-speaking people who happened to have a
monarchy. So, "no taxation without representation" really became also a
kind of an anti-monarchist sentiment. </p><p>If you think of the
Spanish, the rebellions in Latin America against Spain, there, too, the
rebellions, though there were millions of indigenous peoples who did not
speak Spanish, but basically it was a rebellion of Spanish speakers
against a monarch that was Spanish, speaking in the case of Spain. If
you think about really extreme ethnic nationalism at the end of the
nineteenth century, you think of two states which helped kind of push
the world to the catastrophe that was World War I, one has to point the
finger at both Russia and Germany, which had autocracies. This is
jumping ahead a little bit, but I'm providing you an overview. For
example, the campaign--this is jumping ahead a little bit--the
campaign of Russiafication that was undertaken by the Russian czars, a
brutal campaign against non-Russian minorities, was, in part, a response
to rebellions within the Russian empire by Poles, for example, who rise
up in 1831 and in 1863 and are crushed like grapes. In 1863, Bismarck,
the chancellor of Germany, congratulates the czar for stomping on the
Polish insurgents. But the campaign of Russiaficiation was part of the
re-invention of Russian national identity. </p><p>When I talked about
Peter the Great, I talked about how he saw himself as this great Russian
patriot. Well, aggressive Russian nationalism picks its targets rather
systematically in the campaigns of Russiaficiation. The big pogroms, the
massacres of Jews in Odessa, in Crimea, and in other places, are cheered
on by the Russian czar, by Nicholas II, whom I will talk about when I
get to the Russian Revolution, who saw this as a healthy thing, that the
Jews are being beaten to death by real Russians. This was part of his
campaign of Russiafication. </p><p>In the case of Germany you've got
this madcap loser, Wilhelm II, cracking bottles of champagne, or not of
champagne, but of Riesling, as I said, over big speedy battleships and
all of that. Nobody was a more aggressive nationalist than Wilhelm II,
the Kaiser, who kept saying rather disingenuously that he was "the
number one German" and all of that. We can get rid of the idea that
strong national identity necessarily has a parliamentary outcome. In the
case of Britain, we're not going to talk about Britain too much, but the
case of Britain is pretty interesting, too. But there you have a monarch
without real power. Victoria represents in the imaginary of the British
citizens the stability and the constitutional settlement of the British
Empire. Yet, a couple of points need to be made. </p><p>Language is
important in all of this, though not always. Maybe if I have time I'll
give a Swiss example later on. Basically, in the case of Russian and
German nationalism, and French nationalism and even Spanish nationalism,
because of the dominance of Castille, one looks back to the time when
national languages, which already existed, are used and become
identified with this self-identity of national people. Now, Latin was
the language. Latin was the language of science, of diplomacy, of
everything. Part of what's intriguing and important about the scientific
revolution is that vernacular languages begin to be used as a way of
communicating scientific discoveries. There's a little bit in that
chapter that you read about that. Certainly, language is closely tied to
national self-identity. </p><p>One of the ways when nationalism is most
aggressive and most vulgar is when very ordinary people who are whipped
up, egged on or in some ways urged on by elites began identifying people
who don't speak the same language is somehow not part of this imagined
community. An obvious example would be all the Hungarians who, after the
Treaty of Versailles in 1919 and the subsequent treaties named after
Paris suburbs, are included in Romania and are treated as outsiders.
This is very important even in the origins of the 1989 revolution that
brought down the dreadful Ceausescu dictators in Romania. Anyway, the
vernacular develops. </p><p>If you exclude the cases of Latin America
rebelling against Spain and the Americans rebelling against the British,
development of these languages, and the use of the languages and their
identity with this imagined community is obviously a very important part
of this as well. With the development is the concept of being a citizen.
This is one of the many reasons the French Revolution is so important.
You were no longer the subject of the king, you were a<i> citoyen</i>,
or if you're a female you're a <i>citoyenne</i>. Citizenship takes on
this kind of linguistic aspect as well. During the French Revolution,
there was a revolutionary priest called the Abb&eacute; Gr&eacute;goire.
I think I mention him in the book. He thought that all of these regional
languages should be squished like grapes, because somehow they stood in
the way of a true French national identity. </p><p>Language is so
terribly complicated. In the case of Italy, which is in some ways a
counter example, I think I said before but it's true. At the time of the
Italian unification, only about four or five percent of the population
of Italy, of the whole boot and Sicily, spoke what is now considered to
be Italian. The case of France, which I know more about, is equally
fascinating because of the time of the French Revolution half the French
population did not speak French. There was a lot of bilingualism, but
they did not speak French. If you imagine a map of France, and I think I
went through this very quickly before, but if you imagine a map of
France and if you start at the top, they spoke Dutch in Dunkirk and
places like that. If you move over to Alsace and much of Lorraine, they
spoke a German dialect there. That would be a majority language until
well after World War I. </p><p>How the French tried to get rid of the
German is another story, a sort of national aggression, even in the
context of Germany's defeat after World War I. If you move further
south, as you go to Savoy, don't write this down, but Savoy was annexed
to France in 1860. People spoke essentially Piedmontese, which is the
language spoken in northern Italy in the strongest state of Italy,
Piedmont Sardinia. Then you go further down and they spoke what? They
spoke Provencal. Provencal, as in Jean de Florette, and Manon des
Sources and these Provencal poets setting up at a place called Les Baux
and freezing in the winds of the mistral and reading each other
Proven&ccedil;al poetry. Then you go to Languedoc and they spoke
Occitan, which is a language of Oc. It's a southern French language.
It's a written language. You go to Catalonia and they spoke Catalan. No
surprise there. You go into the Basque country and they spoke Basque,
which is only remotely connected to Finnish and Magyar. Those are the
three hardest languages in Europe. How they got there is another whole
story. We don't really know. If you go north, they spoke Gascon. If you
go into Brittany, they spoke Breton, which has nothing to do with French
at all. </p><p>Even in places that didn't have languages there were
patois. Patois is a sort of a denigrating term. "Well, they speak
patois." In other words, they don't speak really French. In central
France they spoke one patois. In the Limousin they spoke another patois
that was related to that one. Even in the Loire Valley people spoke
patois. This did not condemn them to eternal backwardness. One might say
that in the construction of French national identity, there was an
argument a long time ago by my late friend Eugen Weber that said that
all French national identity had to be constructed between 1880 and
1910, because of railroads, military conscription, and education.
Railroads, military conscription, and education. It's easy to see how
that would work. In fact, he missed one of the complexities of this
glorious country, which is that lots of Breton soldiers didn't learn
French until they were in the trenches, if they were lucky enough to
survive in World War I, and they still spoke Breton in the 1920s and
1930s. There are still old ladies in Brittany that still speak Breton
and their command of French is a bit problematic. </p><p>In Corsica they
still have many people who speak Corsican. They may or may not feel like
they're French. Bilingualism, just as a little aside, in the village
where I've spent half my life almost, in the last twenty-five years or
so, people spoke patois and not French through the 1930s. That really
sort of disappeared. Now older friends of ours understand patois, but
they don't speak it. I had something from a book that I needed someone
to look at to make sure that what I'd written in patois was correct. Not
that I wrote it, but I took it from something. My friend, my
<i>boule</i> partner, Lulu, his parents spoke that as their main
language, but he couldn't correct it. </p><p>Those languages are
disappearing. The point of all this is that now the more we know about
national self-identity, it's possible to have more than one identity.
It's also just a leap of faith to say, "Who are you?" You ask who they
are. That they're going to say, "Well, I'm German," or "I'm French" is
going to be the first thing that they're going to say. They may say,
"I'm from this village," or "I'm from this family," or "I'm from this
region," or "I'm Catholic," or Protestant, or Jewish, or Muslim, some
response like that. But yet when we think of nationalism, we think of
these languages as being motors for elites, first, and then ordinary
people to demand that the borders of states be drawn in a way that
reflects their ethnicity. </p><p>After World War I in the Treaty of
Versailles, you've gone to war over the whole damn question of
nationalism. All these millions of people get killed, dying in terrible
ways--gas and everything else, flamethrowers and machine guns and all
this stuff that we'll talk about. And, so, they say, "If we draw the
lines around these people and give everybody a state, that will be cool.
Then we won't have wars anymore." So, they get all these big maps and
these mapmakers and they try to draw these state boundaries after the
collapse of the four empires. It doesn't work. You can't do it. You've
got winners and you've got losers. If you're going to punish the losers,
like Hungary, then you leave Hungary this small country with much of its
population living on the other side of borders, and either imagining
that that should still be part of Hungary, or wanting themselves to live
back in Hungary where there would be nothing for them at all.
</p><p>Yet, the period we're talking about and the period I began with,
you've got this mobilization of elites saying, "Holy cow! We need our
own state." Remember a line I already gave you a lecture or two ago, all
these Czechs sitting in 1848 in a room like this, not quite as nice.
They say, "If the ceiling falls in, that's the end of the Czech national
movement." Between 1848, the springtime of the peoples, and 1914, you
have millions of people who, a couple decades before that, had
absolutely no sense or very little sense of being Slovene, or Slovak, or
Croat, or whatever, who are suddenly making national demands and wanting
to have a separate state within the context--or to be independent from
the Austria-Hungarian Empire. One of those people was the
sixteen-year-old boy, Princip, who blows the brains out of Franz
Ferdinand and his wife when this car backs up the wrong street in
Sarajevo, although some of his friends were out there trying to get him,
too. That's just a way of kind of thinking about that stuff. </p><p>Let
me give you a couple of examples here I wrote down. Ukraine is a huge
country, a huge important country, very contested relationship with
Russia now because of having gotten Crimea, and Russia wants to have
Crimea and all of this. It's a highly contested relationship because of
the number of Russians who live in Ukraine and all of that. For
Ukrainians, the sense that Ukraine always existed is always taken as a
given. The first Ukrainian grammar book, and this is not dissing
Ukrainians or anybody, but I'm just saying that the reality is that the
first Ukrainian grammar book was published not in 1311 or in 1511, but
in 1819 is the very first one. The first Czech-German dictionary--if
you're going to have a national identity you've got to have a dictionary
so you can translate things between German and Czech. It's a long
publication process. It's published in 1935 to 1939, A to Z. The first
Czech national organization, the one I just described, starts in 1846.
That's pretty recent. </p><p>The first Norwegian grammar book, which
distinguished Norwegian as a separate language and a separate identity
from say Swedish and Danish, is not until 1848. The first dictionary
that is making a distinction between Norwegian and Danish isn't until
1850. That's what I mean about the construction of national identity.
You have to have a sense that you are part of this imagined community.
Having said that, before I talk about a counter example, let me do this
like that. Why not? Let me give you a couple examples that I hope make
the point. These I'm drawing from Timothy Snyder. Let's look at why at
the end of the nineteenth century Lithuanian nationalism develops.
</p><p>You know Lithuania, capital is Vilnius, big tall basketball
players like Sabonis, who played in the NBA. Why Lithuanian nationalism
rapidly develops, but only at the end of the nineteenth century, and
Belarusian nationalism doesn't develop at all until way in--it's even
pushing it to say in the 1920s and 1930s. Now there's this huge
Belarus--I was in Poland. The various times I've been to Poland. There
was a huge dinner with all these Belarusians who most of them were
dissidents and are there to discuss the history of Belarus, but none of
them would be claiming that Belarus had a self-identity before the
1930s. But Lithuania existed. Lithuania was part of the Polish-Lithuania
commonwealth, which exists basically until the last partition of Poland
in 1795, when Poland gets munched, <i>bouff&eacute;</i>, by the great
powers. </p><p>Who do these people think they were? They think they're
Polish. They consider themselves Polish. Poles already had a basis for
nationalism. They had a written language. They have heroes, Chopin.
Chopin didn't go to Paris as a refugee from Russian repression. He went
there to further his musical career. But anyway, he wrote lots that had
to do with Polish national themes, folklore and all of that. There have
been dukes of Lithuania, grand dukes, but they didn't accept Lithuanian
as a language. If they wanted to get anywhere, they tried to pass
themselves off as Poles. Pilsudski, a name you will come back to who
destroyed the Polish republic, as one after another of European states
goes authoritarian in the 1920s and 1930s. Pilsudski, who was the hero
of the miracle of the Vistula River when the Polish army turns back the
Red Army at the end of World War I in just sort of an amazing moment.
Pilsudski himself was Lithuanian. But he considered himself Polish. He
was absolutely a Lithuanian. Yet there was a Lithuanian language, but it
was not spoken by the elites. </p><p>Who spoke the Lithuanian language?
It was spoken by the peasants. At the end of the nineteenth century,
you've suddenly got all these Lithuanian intellectuals and grand dukes
and priests and various people saying, "Wait a minute. We are
Lithuanians and happily, the Lithuanian peasantry has saved our
language." The last Lithuanian duke who spoke Lithuanian died before
Columbus discovered America, Tim Snyder informed me. Some may say,
"These Lithuanian peasants, we won't treat them anymore as the scum of
the earth. They have preserved our language for us." Suddenly, you have
poets writing in Lithuanian. It's no longer a disgrace to be seen as a
Lithuanian. One of these poets, a guy called Kudirka, who died in 1899,
he recalled when he was in school as a smart Lithuanian kid, he said,
"My self preservation instinct told me not to speak in Lithuanian and to
make sure that no one noticed that my father wore a rough peasant's coat
and could only speak Lithuanian. I did my best to speak Polish, even
though I spoke it badly." </p><p>Polish is a terribly difficult
language. There's all these sort of squiggly things. Things don't
pronounce like you think they're supposed to. I don't do very well at
picking up Polish. "When my father and other relatives visited me, I
stayed away from them when I could see that fellow students or gentlemen
were watching." He was embarrassed to be basically Lithuanian and the
son of a Lithuanian peasant. "I only spoke with them at ease when we
were alone or outside. I saw myself as a Pole and thus as a gentleman. I
had imbibed the Polish spirit." By the end of the century he sees
himself as a Lithuanian. He is one of these people who are pushing
Lithuanian nationalism and it is embraced. How does this physically
happen? You don't wake up and say, "I was Polish yesterday and a subject
of the czar, because Poland is divided between Prussia, Austria-Hungary,
and Russia. But if you were in the Russian part of what they called
Congress Poland, then suddenly today I'm Lithuanian. How does that
happen? Because Lithuania is next to Germany. This is also something
that will make you again think of what I said about the Enlightenment.
</p><p>Lots of literature is smuggled into Lithuania in Lithuanian.
Therefore, there's this wild profusion of Lithuanian literature that
comes into Lithuania, which of course as you know was not independent.
It was part of the Russian Empire. So, there's another reason, too,
which is for the Russian imperial secret police, the ones that they're
really worried about. They're worried about the Poles, because the Poles
have risen up in 1831 and in 1863. So they're on the lookout for people
that are saying, "Hey, I'm Polish. We want a Polish state." They don't
pay much attention. They don't really care about these Lithuanians who
are discovering their own self-identity, who are constructing their
self-identity. Why doesn't it happen in Belarus? I don't have time to
tell you very much about this, but the main thing is that Belarus is a
long way away from anywhere at the time. </p><p>There isn't any kind of
elite in Belarus that embraces Belarussian anything. The language has
not seen part of a national self-identity that basically does not exist
and would not exist until at least after World War I. Now Lithuanians
will look back on their country as if Lithuania had always had this sort
of self-identity. Part of the Polish-Lithuanian commonwealth, that was
more basically a Polish operation and it was a territorial thing more
than any kind of construction of two peoples participating in this
thing. Furthermore, Belarussians were not allowed to publish in their
own language. Whereas Lithuanian priests began giving sermons in
Lithuanian and you've got all this written material coming in the
vernacular. Nobody read Belarussian in church. There were no priests to
say that "this is our language." Belarussians who were literate could
read Polish or Russian or both, but in many cases not what would become
Belarussian at all. </p><p>By the end of the nineteenth century when
you've got these other people insisting that "we're Slovenes" and "we're
this and that," Belarussian speakers called themselves Russian if they
were Orthodox religion. They called themselves Polish if they were Roman
Catholic. If they were simply looking out for themselves, they just
called themselves local. They said, "We live in the Russian empire and
that's who we are." There was no sense of being Belarussian. There are
different outcomes in all of this stuff. Having said that, we're going
to get there. Let me give you another example. I want to find this date
that will make you at least realize that you can have a national
identity and have more than one language. It's very complex. I guess the
most interesting case now would be Belgium, which I don't have a lot of
time to talk about. </p><p>In Belgium, I have friend who works in the
Belgian Ministry of Culture in Brussels. About seven years ago I asked
him, "Do you think Belgium will exist in ten years?" He said, "I hope
not." This guy works for the Belgian Ministry of Culture. This reflects
the sharp antagonism between the Flemish, who basically live in the
north and east, but above all the northern parts of Belgium, and who are
more prosperous and who are more numerous, about say fifty-five percent
of the population. Their tensions with the Walloons, that is the French
speakers, Li&egrave;ge, and Arlon and all those places, and also in
Brussels, which is technically part of the Flemish zone. Because of the
bureaucracy and because Brussels is the most important city, it has
become this sort of third place hotly contested by the Flemish and real
serious tensions there. </p><p>If you ask in French what time the train
is to Bruges, they're not going to reply. They know perfectly well. They
just simply won't reply. Not all of them, but those are serious tensions
that are compounded also by the fact that there's going to be, not
everybody, but the far right is really tied to Flemish self-identity.
The Walloons, that is the French, many of the French speakers want to be
attached to France, see their lives as very different. Also, the Walloon
part of Belgium is basically the rust belt and the Flemish part is very
prosperous in comparison. Yet Belgium, which didn't exist legally until
1831, the revolution of 1830 and 1831 is still there. By the way,
there's also five percent tacked on after Versailles around a town
called Eupen who speak German. Anyway, there we go. But Belgium is still
there. </p><p>When I'm in Belgium, which I am frequently, I think, "Now
this is really Europe," because of the complexity of it. You can have a
national identity without having a single dominant language, if the two
sides are tolerant. Let me give you another quick example, and then
we've got to rock and roll onto the A-H Empire, a shortcut now. Not
Austria-Hungary. I've got to save time, so "A-H" Empire. What about
Switzerland? Here you've got Switzerland. If I remember correctly, the
statistics, I think the French speaking population is twenty-two
percent. German speaking or Swiss Deutsch speaking population is about
maybe seventy-one percent, or something like that. You've got an Italian
speaking population of about five percent. And you also have another
language called Romansch, which is spoken only by a few hundred thousand
people. That's three languages already, plus English, because of the
international role of Geneva, is the fourth major or recognized language
in Switzerland. </p><p>Switzerland now is so prosperous, and full of
chocolate, and full of banks, and full of watches, and all of that. You
think of everybody yodeling and cows running around and everybody's very
happy and eating perch out of the lakes. But the Swiss have to create
this sense that they have always been a nation. But they haven't. The
decentralized, federalist nature of Switzerland was always there. During
the Reformation, to say somebody was turning Swiss meant that they were
rejecting the demands of their lords, and rejecting the religion imposed
by their lords and turning to Protestantism, if they were in a Catholic
area or to Catholicism if they were in a Protestant area. The Swiss were
big time mercenaries and big time farmers. But Switzerland fought its
last war early in the nineteenth century and has been neutral. It's a
very complicated story, what happened in Switzerland during World War
II. It's very tragic. </p><p>The Swiss turned so many Jews back at the
frontier and sent them back to Germany, and laundering Nazi money, and
all that. I'm not dumping on the Swiss, but it's a complicated story in
the case of their neutrality. They decided in 1891, on the
600<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the Swiss confederation that Switzerland
began in 1291. That a bunch of people got together between all the cows
and eating chocolate and all that stuff, and they announced that they
were Switzerland. Here's again what Anderson means about this sort of
imagined community, that you're inventing a kind of date that you said,
"We've been like that since then and that's all there is to it." But if
you've got all these different languages and the languages are not as
far apart as French and Dutch, well in a way they are because Dutch is
really, although the Dutch would not see it that way, but is a German
dialect. Nonetheless, the Swiss are a lot better at learning each
other's language than the French speakers certainly are at learning
Dutch, which they view as impossible and don't like their kids having to
learning it in school and all that. It's terribly complicated. So, they
imagine this community, but it exists. </p><p>Switzerland exists. People
have a sense of being Swiss, despite these different languages. There
are not the economic disparities. Well, there are between urban and
rural life, but nothing like the disparity between the Flemish parts of
Belgium and the French parts of Belgium, if you exclude Brussels and all
that. Let me end in the last five minutes and seven seconds that is
allotted to me. Let me end with a counter example, which you can read
about. I said at the beginning, inspired by the sheer horror of the
Balkans, and some of you aren't old enough to remember, certainly not,
my god, I am, all the stuff that happened in the late 1990s. You can
probably remember all the massacres and stuff like that. </p><p>I said
at the very beginning of the hour or the beginning of the fifty minutes
that people now tend to look longingly back. They say, "The
Austria-Hungarian Empire, it sure lasted a long time." You had fifteen
major nationalities. It was kind of a balancing act. It becomes the dual
monarchy in 1867, where the Hungarians have, more or less, equal rights.
You've got Austria and you've got Hungary. But you've got another
thirteen peoples, at least thirteen peoples living within the empire.
You've got the Croats, who have their nobility. They're kind of given
favorable status. This whole thing is sort of balanced. How does the
place stay together? How does Austria-Hungary stay together? I end one
of those chapters, that chapter with this very famous scene from the
parliament in Vienna where you've got these different ethnic groups
playing drums and singing songs and trying to disrupt the speeches by
people from the other nationalities. You've got all these problems with
the south Slavs wanting at least minimal representation as sort of this
"third state" along with Austria and Hungary. </p><p>How does the thing
stay together? Basically, in this way. I'm just telling you briefly
about things that you can read about, but I just wanted to make some
sense of it. First of all, the language of the empire is German. To get
somewhere in the Austria-Hungarian Empire, you need to know German. So,
learning German becomes kind of a social mobility, the way that learning
French becomes for somebody from Gascony a form of social mobility. You
can get a job in the bureaucracy. If you're going to have a humongous
empire going all the way to the rugged terrain of Bosnia-Herzevogina,
you've got to have officials and their little hats and their little
desks who are going to be running all this stuff. You've got to have a
language. The language of the empire is German. This does not mean that
people feel that they're German. After all, they're not German. They're
German speakers within the Austria-Hungarian empire. It gives them an
allegiance to this apparatus. </p><p>Secondly, the middle class. The
middle class is German, largely, except in Budapest where it's
Hungarian. Still, many Germans live in Budapest as well. One of the
things I wish I had time to talk about, but you can't talk about
everything, is that what you've got in these cities, and I mentioned
this in reference the other day. Cities of all of Eastern Europe and
central Europe, you have kind of an ethnicization of these cities. All
of the cities, whether you're talking about Budapest or you're talking
about Warsaw, or anywhere you're talking about, even Vilnius, you have
large German populations and also large Jewish populations. In the
course of the last decades of the nineteenth century, you have this sort
of rival of Estonian peasants into Talin, of Czech peasants into Prague,
of Hungarian peasants into Budapest, of Lithuanian peasants into
Vilnius, etc., etc. But you've still got, in the Austria-Hungarian case,
you still have, even in Budapest, you still have a large middle class
that is fundamentally German and believes in the empire. </p><p>Next,
you've got dynastic loyalty. You've got this old dude, Franz Joseph, who
had been there since 1848. He lives until 1916, the same guy. That makes
Victoria seem like she had a short reign. People have an allegiance to
this dynasty. The Habsburg Dynasty had been dominant in central Europe
until they contest the Prussians and lose out in the War of 1966. So
you've got this Franz Joseph. Also you've got the Catholic Church. There
are lots of Protestants. For example in the Czech lands in Bohemia,
where Slovakia is almost overwhelmingly Catholic in what would become
Czechoslovakia and then divorce, amicably enough, in 1993. Croatia is
overwhelming Catholic, aggressively so. </p><p>Despite the fact you have
these huge Muslim enclaves in the old what had been the Ottoman empire,
you still have this church as a unifying force, not for everybody and
certainly not for the Jews, not for the gypsies, of whom are the Roma,
who are very many there, and not for protestants and not for orthodox
Serbs, which is part of the tensions there as well. They saw Russia as
being their protector. You can read more about that, but that's another
thing. Finally, you've got the army. The army is a form of social
promotion as well. The army doesn't have the bad reputation that the
French army did for shooting down young girls, young women protesting in
strikes. It doesn't have the reputation that the brutal Garda Civila did
in Spain. The army is seen as a useful way of representing the empire.
It has a good reputation. German, the language, is the language of
command. These soldiers and soldiers are drawn from all of these
nationalities, they at least have that in common. </p><p>To conclude,
the most important question to ask about this empire, particularly in
reference to what I've been saying about this whole hour is to not look
at why it came apart, but to look at how it held together so long. Given
the horrors perpetuated on Europe by aggressive nationalism from then,
and even before, as during the French Revolution to this very day,
sometimes, and I never thought I'd ever say this about me looking
nostalgically back to an empire, but it is interesting and at least food
for thought. On that note, <i>bon app&eacute;tit</i> and see you on
Wednesday.</p><p>[end of transcript]</p><p></h2>
  </p>
</div>
<p><a id="backToTop" href="#top">back to top</a></p>