{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid21053\rsid6185277\rsid13071559}{\info{\title Modern Poetry (Handout 6) }{\author swing machine}{\operator Jeffrey Levick}{\creatim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr16\min11}{\revtim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr17\min1}{\version4}{\edmins2}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords428}{\nofchars2441}{\nofcharsws2997}{\vern24967}}\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\rsidroot8804684 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqr\tx9360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid21053 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid21053 Modern Poetry (Handout 7)                        Prof. Hammer\par Lecture 9 Ezra Pound\tab   \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid21053 {\fs24\insrsid21053 \par It is true that the great artist always has a great audience, even in his lifetime; but it is not the vulgo [the people] but the spirits of irony and of destiny and of humor [the great authors of the past], sitting beside him.--Pound, }{\i\fs24\insrsid21053 Poetry}{\fs24\insrsid21053  1914-15, replying to }{\i\fs24\insrsid21053 Poetry}{\fs24\insrsid21053 \rquote s motto, from Whitman: \ldblquote to have great poetry there must be great audiences too\rdblquote \par \par There\rquote s no use in a strong impulse [in poetry] if it is nearly all lost in bungling transmission and technique.  This obnoxious word that I\rquote m always brandishing about [technique] means nothing but a transmission of the impulse intact.--Pound, 1914\par \par An organization of forms expresses a confluence of forces. These forces may be the \ldblquote love of God,\rdblquote  the \ldblquote life-force,\rdblquote  emotions, passions, what you will. For example: if you clap a strong magnet beneath a plateful of iron filings, the energies of the magnet will proceed to organise form. It is only by applying a particular and suitable force that you can bring order and vitality and thence beauty into a plate of iron filings, which are otherwise as \ldblquote ugly\rdblquote  as anything under heaven. The design in the magnetised iron filings expresses a confluence of energy. It is not \ldblquote meaningless\rdblquote  or \ldblquote inexpressive.\rdblquote --Pound, \ldblquote Vorticism,\rdblquote  1915 \par \par I have begun an endless poem, of no known category.  Phanopoeia or something or other, all about everything. . . I wonder what you will make of it.--Pound to James Joyce, writing about the beginning of }{\i\fs24\insrsid21053 The Cantos}{\fs24\insrsid21053  in 1915 (\ldblquote phanopoeia\rdblquote  means image-making)\par \par A. A. Live man goes down into world of Dead\par C. B. The \lquote repeat in history\rquote \par B. C. The \lquote magic moment\rquote  or moment of metamorphosis, bust thru from quotidien into \lquote divine or permanent world.\rquote \par ---Pound to his father on the plot of }{\i\fs24\insrsid21053 The Cantos}{\fs24\insrsid21053 \par \par There }{\i\fs24\insrsid21053 is}{\fs24\insrsid21053  a start, descent to the shades, metamorphoses, parallel . . . All of which is mere matter for little---rs Harvud instructors }{\i\fs24\insrsid21053 unless}{\fs24\insrsid21053  I pull it off as reading matter, singing matter, shouting matter, the tale of the tribe.---Pound on }{\i\fs24\insrsid21053 The Cantos\par }{\fs24\insrsid21053 \par The ideogramic method consists of presenting one facet and then another until at some point one gets off the dead and desensitized surface of the reader\rquote s mind, onto a part that will register.--Pound, }{\i\fs24\insrsid21053 Guide to Kulchur}{\fs24\insrsid21053 , 1937\par \par The oldest English     accented meter\par Of four, unfailing,     fairly audible\par Strongly struck     stresses seldom\par Attended to anything     other than\par Definite downbeats:     how many dim\par Unstressed upbeats     in any line\par Mattered not much;     motion was measured\par With low leaps    of alliteration\par Handily harping on    heavy accents\par --John Hollander, on Old English alliterative verse, in }{\i\fs24\insrsid21053 Rhyme\rquote s Reason: A Guide to English Verse}{\fs24\insrsid21053 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid13071559 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13071559 {\f214\insrsid13071559\charrsid13071559 Copyright \u169\'a9 2007 Yale University.  Some rights reserved.  Unless otherwise indicated on this document or on the Open Yale Courses web site, all content is licensed under a Creative Commons License (Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0).\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid21053 \par }}