{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1835443\rsid16064937\rsid16474630\rsid16597410}{\info{\title Modern Poetry (Handout 7)}{\author swing machine}{\operator Jeffrey Levick}{\creatim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr16\min11}{\revtim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr17\min2}{\version4}{\edmins2}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords501}{\nofchars2858}{\nofcharsws3509}{\vern24967}}\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\rsidroot5465032 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqr\tx9360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16474630 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid1835443 Modern Poetry (Handout 9)\tab Prof. Hammer\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16474630 {\fs24\insrsid16474630 Lecture 17 Marianne Moore\par \par As for \ldblquote A Grave,\rdblquote  it has a significance apart from the literal origin, which was a man who placed himself between my mother and me, and the surf we were watching from the middle ledge of rocks on Monhegan Island [in Maine] after the storm.  (\ldblquote Don\rquote t be annoyed,\rdblquote  my mother said.  \ldblquote It is human nature to stand in the middle of a thing.\rdblquote )\par --Marianne Moore commenting on her poem, \ldblquote A Grave\rdblquote \par \par \par Thank God, I think you can be trusted not to pour out a flood (in the manner of dear Amy [Lowell] and [Edgar Lee] Masters).\par --Pound commenting on \ldblquote A Grave\rdblquote  in a letter to Moore (December 16, 1918)\par \par \tab I am glad to give you personal data and hope that the bare facts that I have to offer, may not cause work that I may do from time to time, utterly to fail in interest. . . . I was born in 1887 and brought up in the home of my grandfather, a clergyman of the Presbyterian church. I am Irish by descent, possibly Scotch also, but purely Celtic, was graduated from Bryn Mawr in 1909 and taught shorthand, typewriting and commercial law at the government Indian School in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, from 1911 to 1915. In 1916, my mother [Mary Warner Moore] and I left our home in Carlisle to be with my brother [John Warner Moore]---also a clergyman---in Chatham, New Jersey---but since the war, Chaplain of the battleship Rhode Island and by reason of my brother's entering the navy, my mother and I are living at present in New York, in a small apartment. . . . contrary to your impression, I am altogether blond and have red hair [Pound had asked, in response to reading Moore's poem "Black Earth," if she was "Ethiopian"].\par \tab . . . Any verse that I have written, has been an arrangement of stanzas, each stanza being an exact duplicate of every other stanza. I have occasionally been at pains to make an arrangement of lines and rhymes that I liked repeat itself, but the form of the original stanza of anything I have written has been a matter of expediency, hit upon as being approximately suitable to the subject matter. The resemblance of my progress to your beginnings is an accident so far as I can see [Pound had supposed that his early experiments in writing syllabic poems had influenced Moore]. \par \tab . . . I do not appear [that is, appear in literary periodicals]. . . . I grow less and less desirous of being published, produce less and have a strong feeling for letting alone what little I do produce. My work jerks and rears and I cannot get up enthusiasm for embalming what I myself, accept conditionally.\par \tab . . . To capitalize the first word of every line is rather slavish and I have substituted small letters for capitals in the enclosed versions of the two poems you have.\par \tab . . . In "A Graveyard," [the change] I have made is to end the line as you suggest and for the sake of symmetry, have altered the arrangement of lines in the preceding stanzas. I realize that by writing consciousness and volition [the order of the words Pound prefered], emphasis is obtained which is sacrificed by retaining the order which I have, and I am willing to make the change, though I prefer the original order [which she ultimately kept].\par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid16474630 ---Moore to Pound, January 9, 1919}{\fs24\insrsid16064937 \par \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16064937 {\f214\insrsid16064937\charrsid16064937 Copyright \u169\'a9 2007 Yale University.  Some rights reserved.  Unless otherwise indicated on this document or on the Open Yale Courses web site, all content is licensed under a Creative Commons License (Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0).\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid16474630 \par }}