{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 00020206030504050203}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f214\froman\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}TimesNewRomanPSMT{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid7292095\rsid10308798\rsid11299118\rsid12600389\rsid16670011}{\info{\title Modern Poetry Handout 4 and Image List}{\author swing machine}{\operator Jeffrey Levick}{\creatim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr16\min12}{\revtim\yr2007\mo10\dy3\hr17}{\version4}{\edmins2}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords377}{\nofchars2152}{\nofcharsws2642}{\vern24967}}\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow0\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\rsidroot13845879 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16670011 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid16670011 Modern Poetry Handout 5 and Image List\tab \tab \tab   Prof. Hammer\par Lecture 7 World War I Poetry in England\par \par \par Hopeless gulfs of misery. Cruelty. The War. Change. Oblivion.\par Human vitality.---Virginia Woolf, notes for }{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011 To the Lighthouse}{\fs24\insrsid16670011  (1927)\par \par Shall we lay the blame on the war? When the guns fired in August 1914, did the faces of men and women show so plain in each other\rquote s eyes that romance was killed? Certainly it was a shock (to women in particular with their illusions about education, and so on) to see the faces of our rulers in the light of the shell-fire. So ugly they looked---German, English, French---so stupid.--Woolf, }{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011 A Room of One\rquote s Own}{\fs24\insrsid16670011  (1929)\par \par The reason why it is easy to kill another person must be that one\rquote s imagination is too sluggish to conceive what his life means to him---the infinite possibilities of a succession of days which are furled in him, & have already been spent.---Woolf, }{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011 Diaries}{\fs24\insrsid16670011 , August 27, 1918\par \par It is really an instinct with me, & with most people, I suppose, to turn any sudden noise, or dark object in the sky into an explosion, or a German aeroplane. . . . It always seems utterly impossible that one should be hurt.---Woolf, }{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011 Diaries}{\fs24\insrsid16670011 , February 1, 1915\par \par One went to bed [at the end of the war] fairly positive that never again in all our lives need we dread moonlight [meaning the threat of air-raid attack at night].---Woolf, }{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011 Diaries}{\fs24\insrsid16670011 , October 18, 1918\par \par \par \par ---}{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011 Poems}{\fs24\insrsid16670011  by Wilfred Owen (London: Chatto and Windus, 1920); dustjacket [Beinecke]\par \par ---}{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011  Poems}{\fs24\insrsid16670011  by Wilfred Owen (London: Chatto and Windus, 1920); frontispiece and title page [Beinecke]\par \par ---}{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011 The Hope Song of the Soldiers\rquote  Sweethearts and Wives}{\fs24\insrsid16670011  by Thomas Hardy (London: private printing, 1917); title page [Beinecke]\par \par ---}{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011 Poems}{\fs24\insrsid16670011  by Edward Thomas (London: Selwyn & Blount, 1917); frontispiece and title page [Beinecke]\par \par ---Photograph of Siegfried Sassoon in uniform in France, 1916 [Hodgson Papers, Beinecke]\par \par ---}{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011 Counter-Attack and Other Poems}{\fs24\insrsid16670011  by Siegfried Sassoon (London: William Heinemann, 1918); title page and facing page [Beinecke]\par \par ---}{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011 Poems}{\fs24\insrsid16670011  by Isaac Rosenberg (London: William Heinemann, 1922); title page and frontispiece [Beinecke]\par \par ---Self-portraits by Isaac Rosenberg c. 1911 and in uniform in France, 1917 [source: }{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011 Collected Works of Isaac Rosenberg}{\fs24\insrsid16670011 , ed. Bottomley]\par \par ---}{\i\fs24\insrsid16670011 Severn & Somme}{\fs24\insrsid16670011  by Ivor Gurney, \ldblquote Private, of the Gloucesters\rdblquote  (London: Sidgwick & Jackson, 1917) [Beinecke]\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid7292095 \par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid7292095 {\f214\insrsid7292095\charrsid7292095 Copyright \u169\'a9 2007 Yale University.  Some rights reserved.  Unless otherwise indicated on this document or on the Open Yale Courses web site, all content is licensed under a Creative Commons License (Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0).\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\fs24\insrsid16670011 \par }}